Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear Buddhist followers and friends, the Buddha taught that
every year, during the three summer months, monks
gather at a temple to
practice morality, concentration, and wisdom together, sharing Buddhist
teachings and their experiences with
the community, encouraging each other to cultivate
virtue. During these three months, the monks unite, practice
purity, and generate
boundless merit. Relying on the blessings of the Master and the
monks of Ba Vang Pagoda, the Buddhist followers of the Golden Chrysanthemum
Club practicing the Six Harmonies
also vow to practice, observe precepts, repent, and
perform meritorious deeds according to the three-month summer
retreat of the monks to increase
wisdom and blessings. Today, the
3rd day of the 5th month of the year of Quy Mao (June 20,
2023), under the guidance of the
Master and the monks, Buddhist follower Pham Thi Yen,
Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan Quan, head of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies, along with
representatives of the Buddhist followers in the club, is holding the
opening ceremony for the three-month summer
retreat of the monks. Now, please welcome...  Dear Buddhist
followers, let us all turn our hearts towards the ceremony of Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni
[music]
[laughter]
[music] [
music] [
laughter]
[music] We
sincerely
offer our heartfelt devotion, sending forth the
fragrant clouds to the ten directions, offering to the
Three Jewels,
upholding the Dharma throughout our lives, doing good deeds for all sentient beings in the
Dharma realm,
praying for the Buddha's compassionate protection, steadfast Bodhi mind, firm resolve to
cultivate the Dharma,
quickly returning to the shore of enlightenment, far from the ocean of suffering and the source of delusion. Namo Incense Offering Bodhisattva, Namo
Incense Offering Bodhisattva, Namo Incense Offering
Bodhisattva Maha Bodhisattva
[laughter]
[music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, we respectfully
ask all Buddhas, Bodhisattvas, and virtuous and holy monks to
witness and protect
us. We respectfully ask the
Dharma Protectors of Ba Vang Pagoda to support
us. We respectfully ask the Venerable Ones,
in their compassionate hearts and under the guidance of our
master and the monks of Ba Vang Pagoda, every year the
Buddhist followers of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club practice the Six Harmonies, and
we all practice the
three-month retreat.  To
penetrate Right View, cultivate wisdom, and
increase blessings under the Buddha's guidance,
today, May 3rd, 2013 (Year of the Rabbit),
with the permission of our Master and the
Sangha, we, representing the
Buddhist practitioners of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club practicing the Six Harmonies,
respectfully offer incense before the
statues of the Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, and virtuous monks in the main
hall of Ba Vang Pagoda. We humbly request the Three
Jewels to witness and bless us, and the
Dharma Protectors to support us in
opening the ceremony of the Dharma assembly,
vowing to cultivate merits according to the three
lights of the monastic retreat for all the
Buddhist groups of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club
practicing the Six Harmonies. During this three-month
practice, we will study according to our circumstances, focusing on
topics such
as the Eight Great Enlightenment Sutra, the Six Harmonious Dharmas, and the Ten Mindfulnesses
leading to enlightenment and liberation, suitable to the
practice of Buddhist practitioners who have joined the Dharma assembly
or those who have joined before.
We vow to encourage each other to worship the Buddha, recite sutras,
share and encourage each other to learn, understand,
and practice the Buddha's teachings.  We
practice meditation, cultivate precepts, and refine our minds and
bodies to gradually eliminate unwholesome thoughts,
attachments, greed,
hatred, and clinging. We cultivate the path of filial piety and virtue, and together we perform good deeds, making offerings, giving alms, releasing animals, and encouraging each other. Relying on the Six Harmonious Dharma, we
respectfully practice the paramitas to seek Supreme Enlightenment
through the Bodhisattva's virtuous deeds, developing Bodhicitta, protecting the Three Jewels, and
spreading the Buddha
's teachings throughout the world. We humbly rely on the power of the Three Jewels, the vows to save sentient beings, and the spiritual realm of the monks of Ba Vang Pagoda, the power and merit
of the Six Harmonious Dharma.
We respectfully invite all Dharma Protectors,
Brahma, Indra, the Four Heavenly Kings, the
Heavenly Dragons, the Eightfold Path, the Dharma Protectors, benevolent
deities, and all the hundred deities and
guardian spirits to gather at this Dharma Assembly to listen to the
scriptures and protect our assembly. We
also respectfully invite the spirits of our
past parents, ancestors, and forefathers from both
sides of the family,
along with the spirits of our karmic enemies and those with whom we have a karmic connection
with the
Buddhist families in the club, to gather here at this Dharma Assembly to
listen to the scriptures.  We, the monks, have been
practicing the sutras and for three months, following the teachings of the
Sangha. We also respectfully invite all the Venerable Ones to
gather at the Dharma assemblies and altars that
Buddhists open for practice at home, in groups, and
at the Dharma halls to listen to the sutras and Dharma teachings. We humbly pray that the
Buddhas of the ten directions will bear witness and bless us. May the
Devas, Dharma Protectors, and benevolent spirits, relying on the power of the Three Jewels, the
power
of the Bodhisattva, and the Six Harmonious Dharmas, support
us. At this time, we respectfully
perform the ritual of practice. Namo, witnessing Master
Bodhisattva Maha Bodhisattva. Namo, witnessing Master
Bodhisattva Maha Bodhisattva. Namo, ever-protecting Bodhisattva.
[Laughter]
Dang,
Dharma King.
[Music]
The teacher teaches the gods. In the
cold place, we are of no kind. [
Music] In
one place, recite the mantra to completely eliminate karma. Dreams of three lifetimes. May we quickly be
with you in this
life, not with the
frequency.
[Music] The
Buddha is born within it, the
cold rain flows. Oh, the path of
enlightenment is understood.
[Music] The
air of the Buddha's path.
[Music] The radiant light shines brightly.
[Music]
Tam Mao, great fool. Namo, the
end of the
ocean.
Because of the
Ten  The
Buddha's Dharma manifests the holy Sangha, the ever-abiding
Three Jewels
[music]
only Tam
Le, oh Namo A Xa Ba Sau, the temple of the
Four Buddhas, Shakyamuni Buddha, the Buddha hall
in Mai,
born Amitabha Buddha, the Great Bodhisattva Manjushri, the
Great A-prayer Bodhisattva
[music]
Linh Nga Son, the assembly of Buddhas and
Bodhisattvas
[music] Southern Dharma Lord, the Pure Land, the Great Compassionate Amitabha Buddha, the Great Compassionate Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, the Great Wisdom
Bodhisattva, the Great Vow Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva, the holy Pure
Land, the assembly of
Bodhisattvas
[music]
Mo A, the Eastern Dharma, the teachings
are digested, at the time of the Medicine Buddha, where is the transformation,
Ly Quang, the radiant sun, the moon's light,
knowing how to illuminate
the holy land in the Pure Land, the greatest, all,
we invite the great assembly, let us sit down so
we can chant the scriptures [music
]
[laughter]
[music] [
laughter]
[music] The
Buddha's Dharma, sorrowful white color, what more in
life, wanting to find grass, I now
wish to keep the vow, the true meaning, the True Virtue, the World Honored One,
Namo Buddha, the Original Teacher Shakyamuni
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, respectfully addressing the Buddha
Shakyamuni. At that
time, the Bodhisattva, the
founder of the Buddhist religion, was in a distant city and came to the Eastern Buddhist monastery to
establish a model with the assembly of
hundreds of billions of monks in Quang Nam. At that time,
on the full moon day, the
Bodhisattva, the Venerable Master, sat in the midst of the assembly. After
looking around at the
assembly, which remained silent, he said to the monks, "These monks, I invite you to speak. Do you
have any criticisms regarding my body or speech?" Hearing this, the Venerable Sariputta rose from his seat, clasped his hands, and respectfully said, "Venerable Lord, we have no criticisms regarding spring,
speech, or illness. Venerable Lord, I invite you to
speak. Do you have any criticisms
regarding my body or speech?
Sariputta, I have no criticisms regarding my
body or speech." "Venerable Lord, regarding
this hundred billion monks, do you have any
criticisms regarding my body or speech?" "
Sariputta, regarding
this monk, I have no criticisms."  Excerpt from a sutra about the body or
speech of a
castle, due to fear of being punished. At that time, the
Eastern Buddha resided in a city. At that
time, many monks, after having settled in
a place during the rainy season and
performing a suicide ritual at sea,
traveled through a village on their way
to the city of Xa Ve to pay homage to the Buddha.
There, a woman
performed the ritual of purifying the mind with a heart full of
virtuous intentions. After she
passed away, she was reborn in the 30th heaven
and the Venerable Moggallana. In the year of the 17th, a celestial
maiden of extraordinary beauty shone in all
ten directions with radiant light. Her whole
body shone like a star, saving the world.
Why was she so beautiful? What was the reason for her appearance? Whatever beasts were
heavy in their cages, everything
appeared immediately from her mind. The great and
powerful celestial maiden created virtue. In ancient times,
why did people have such a majestic and radiant appearance, shining all around her in
ten directions? The celestial maiden, the
World-Honored One, was asked by a Venerable Moggallana.
She immediately answered the question of her karma
and the result of her being reborn as a
human. In ancient times, people met a monk.
With sincere devotion and joyful hearts, I offer my
hands in reverence at your feet, for
this is why my appearance is so beautiful and I am glorious
here. Any fake medicinal herb that is loved
immediately appears. I
respectfully present to the great divine merit of the great monster. I perform this ritual of offering and patience, and through this, my majestic demeanor shines brightly, radiating light throughout the ten directions. We all kneel to make vows to practice. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
We rejoice and vow to practice the Bodhisattva path. We cultivate the Bodhi mind,
protect the Three Jewels,
spread the Buddha Dharma throughout the world,
spread the Dharma throughout the world. We cultivate the
Bodhi mind, protect the Three Jewels, spread the Buddha Dharma throughout the world, spread the
Dharma throughout the
world. We vow to dedicate this to the true
Dharma of the Buddha, to be proclaimed and flourish. We vow to
dedicate this to the true Dharma of the Buddha, to be
proclaimed and flourish.  We vow to
dedicate the merits to the true Dharma of the Buddha, that it may be
glorified and flourish.
We vow to dedicate the merits to the true Dharma of the Buddha, that it may be glorified and flourish. We vow to dedicate the merits to the true Dharma
of the Buddha, that it may be glorified and flourish. We vow to dedicate the merits to the true Dharma of the Buddha, that it may be glorified and flourish. We vow to give thanks to the homeland.
[Music]
[Laughter]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. We humbly pray that the Three Jewels bear
witness to the majestic power of the Guardian Deities. We, your
disciples, wholeheartedly obey the Three Jewels. We respectfully ask the Master to
guide us in our
practice. We respectfully ask the Sangha to guide us in our three-month summer retreat. We humbly hope that the Three Jewels, the Buddhas,
Bodhisattvas, holy sages, and Sangha will bless us. We
respectfully ask the Dharma Protectors, the
celestial beings, and all the spirits and deities to joyfully support all the Dharma centers, Buddhist groups, and individual
Buddhists in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club after
attending this opening ceremony. May we, according to circumstances,
establish Dharma assemblies to practice and
practice peacefully and skillfully,
truly repenting and acknowledging our mistakes when
pointed out, with joyful hearts. May the Buddhists
always love and support each other in their
practice.  Through the Six Harmonious Dharmas, we have achieved
Bodhi merits and wisdom, our
present lives are freed from evil karma, our good wishes
are fulfilled soon, our endeavors are successful, we diligently
practice Bodhi, and in the future we attain
enlightenment. We dedicate this merit to all beings in the spiritual realm, that they may attain enlightenment, joy, and a sincere aspiration to follow the Buddha Dharma, abandoning hatred, delusion, and attachments, and cultivating connections with Dharma sisters and Buddhists in the Bodhi Aspiration Club, diligently practicing Bodhi
virtues and seeking the path to impermanence. We respectfully request that for the true Dharma to
endure, it needs to be
transmitted to all beings. Therefore, our
master and the monks of Ba Vang Pagoda are organizing
retreats for generations of
students. We rely on the grace
of our master and the monks of the
club, and we humbly request that the
weather and other circumstances related
to the retreat be favorable so that we can proceed with the
preparations for the four
summer retreats in 2023 at Ba Vang Pagoda, from
April 24th to
June 6th, 2023.
Volunteers and participants are invited to attend.  We pray that all
participants will be healthy, fully understand and
practice all the regulations of the
retreat, avoid dangerous incidents that
harm their bodies and health, and
refrain from forming factions, arguing, or fighting with
each other. If violations occur, they will be
detected immediately, promptly prevented,
and guided to
transform their character. All participants will
increase their blessings, develop
reverence for the Buddha, love for the Three Jewels, and gratitude
to their masters, monks, and everyone who
taught, guided, and served during the
retreat, thus gaining merit and blessings. This will
open the wisdom of the participants, help them understand karma, cultivate
virtuous character,
eliminate karmic obstacles, and increase their blessings.
We pray that
after the retreat, the participants will return home and, thanks to these blessings,
achieve success in their studies and exams, advance in their
careers, and
become
beneficial members of their families and society. They will also
support the Three Jewels,
promoting virtuous practices,
peace, and the flourishing of Buddhism,
benefiting both humanity and the heavens. We
also dedicate the merits of
our three months of practice to this retreat.  We
pray that all regions of Vietnam will
not be affected by the
current droughts and floods, and that it will rain. We pray that heavy rains will fall
so that the hydroelectric reservoirs will have enough water to
supply electricity to
our people. We also pray together,
from Dong Thanh, to the
three months of peaceful retreat, the practice of cultivating the mind, the practice of morality, concentration, and wisdom,
cultivating merit for the Dharma, the virtuous and benevolent
Buddhist followers. Our hearts are filled with joy, obeying the
Buddha's teachings. Living
in the mundane world, we yearn for the path of renunciation.
Together we vow to dedicate ourselves to the three months of summer retreat,
diligently practicing the three disciplines of learning
and the arduous path of learning. We vow to diligently practice the precepts and the Dharma, and to diligently
practice the Dharma. We pray that
in this life and all future lives, we will
meet our past selves, virtuous friends,
practicing the Bodhisattva path, protecting the Three Jewels, spreading the Buddha
Dharma
throughout the world, awaiting our return to the homeland, the
supreme Bodhi, in
this life
and in the next, relying on the Three Jewels to
establish the Dharma, the Six Harmonies, and the liberation of the nation.
For all sentient beings wandering in the
wilderness, practicing the teachings of the sunbeams, we
pray again, or busy with the bright light of Thanh Son,
guiding sentient beings
[music]
praying for the master of the private school, the representative, the mistress of the
world, the long-lasting line of the righteous Dharma
[music]
all beings with karmic connections within this realm,
together with our parents
in this life
and countless previous lives,
deeply connected to our relatives and the departed souls, the beautiful and beautiful
karmic connections, breaking through all obstacles today, the ancestral spirits, the
wrongdoings of the masters
[music]
merit of the law, the
auspicious
drop of water, the Southern Treasure, the
protection of the Buddha Dharma,
together with us, those with karmic connections, the women, the karmic connections, the cultivation of
Bodhi, and we also ask for the dedication of merit to the
whole family, health and well-being, the
Long Dao, the
woman, the elimination of all work, the clear and smooth progress
according to the Buddha Dharma in Thuong
Huyen, for the flourishing of Buddhism throughout the world, for
Vietnam always having Minh Quang
leading the country
[music]
[Applause]
warmly embracing the Buddha's path, we again ask for gratitude to the
Three Jewels, the great suffering of the merciful friends, and
all the gods and spirits in all  All
beings, both human and non-human, in the assembly, Namo
Avalokiteshvara Bodhisattva, Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni,
ask about the merits of the practice
[music]
[music]. Yes, the refuge in the
Buddha vows for all beings to understand the
great path, to
develop the supreme aspiration, to take refuge in the
Dharma, and to vows for all beings to deeply
penetrate the scriptures and wisdom as in the book
[music].
Self-refuge
vows for all beings to manage the great assembly, do you
see?
[music] We
invite the great assembly, we have completed the opening ceremony.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear Buddhist followers, the opening ceremony
for the three-month retreat of the monks has been
completed. Now we
respectfully invite the head of the group to share
words of encouragement with the great assembly. We respectfully invite the head of the group. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear all fellow practitioners, today, with the
permission of our master, the
monks of our club officially open the
three-month retreat for the
monks. Dear fellow practitioners, our
master has allowed us to...  We open the Dharma hall
together and share because we Buddhists practice
together, so we know a lot about each other.
Our temperaments are also similar,
so when we encourage each other,
it is accurate. This applies to our
practice in the Dharma hall as well as our lay life.
During the three months of the retreat, the monks must practice meditation.
Therefore, we often encourage each other to
practice during these three months. Dear fellow
practitioners, today
we read the Sutra of Self-Confession. The
sutra clearly states that on
the day of self-confession, the monks focus on cultivating their minds and bodies,
refining their precepts and virtues.
We often go to offer alms, but
we don't always know
why the three months of the retreat bring so
much merit to the lay practitioners.
And what do the monks usually practice during the three months of retreat?
What do you fellow practitioners usually practice?
Here, I share with you, dear fellow
practitioners, that the monks practice
nothing other than penetrating Right View and
practicing the precepts.  Regardless of the method of practice, all methods
must lead to the attainment of liberation of mind and
liberation of wisdom, my esteemed fellow practitioners. If one fails to
achieve this, it is as if one
has not cultivated the practice. A
practitioner who does not attain
liberation of mind and liberation of wisdom cannot
be called a true practitioner.
We have all learned and been
taught by our masters for many years. Even the most profound
sutras taught by our masters, which he taught for
countless years, are
no exception. Besides helping
us resolve doubts and attain Right View,
especially the
sutras at the end, which he taught extensively to the monks, he
also
explained very clearly and thoroughly the importance of monks
always contemplating when their
eyes
encounter worldly objects. That is, when the eyes see worldly objects, the
mind must turn to
contemplation. This contemplation then leads to the attainment of a
diligent mind, freeing one from desires and
attachments. Every sutra is like this, my esteemed fellow
practitioners.
And
living among the community, how can
we still be beneficial? We just heard the sutra of the
Four Minds, the Contemplation of the Complete View. Let me
briefly reiterate...  The sutra
says this: At that time, on the
full moon day, the Bodhisattva's Self-Confession (meaning the monks usually observe the rainy season retreat) would be held on
the 14th,
15th, or 13th day of the month—
those days were chosen by the monks themselves. But
usually, they chose the full moon day, the day
after the three-
month rainy season retreat. For example, if the monks observe the
retreat from April, May,
or June, the Self-Confession would be in July.
How should the final result be counted?
This sutra
clearly teaches the principle of mindful contemplation.
At that time, on the full moon day, the
Bodhisattva's Self-Confession, the Buddha sat in the midst of the assembly.
After looking around at the silent assembly, he
said to the monks, "These monks, I invite you to
speak. Do you have any
criticisms of me, regarding my body or my words?" Upon
hearing this, Venerable Sariputta rose from
his seat, clasped his hands respectfully, and said, "Venerable Lord,
we
have nothing to criticize you about your body
or your words."  And Venerable Buddha, I respectfully invite you to
speak. Do you have any
criticisms of me regarding my actions or
speech?
Reverend fellow practitioners,
how can we cultivate ourselves so that we can
invite others to
point out our faults, to criticize
us regarding our actions, demeanor, and
speech? When living among others,
is there anything to criticize? The
value of our
practice must be judged from this point, fellow
practitioners. When we are willing to let
others speak to
us, to let others express their thoughts, to help us see if there is
anything that could be criticized regarding our demeanor,
or whether our speech is in accordance with the Dharma? That
is, everything we
say, whether there is anything that could be criticized, we
should speak up.
We find it difficult, but we
must cultivate to this level to be considered
a person with diligent practice. If we do not
reach this level, we are considered to have
not yet cultivated diligently.
To reach this level, we must
constantly observe.  When I make mistakes,
I often self-criticize, reflecting on
my demeanor and behavior. Self-
criticism leads to self-change, freeing myself
from the defilements of
body, speech, and mind. Dear fellow practitioners, I
must...  Only by freeing ourselves from
those things can
we joyfully listen to others
pointing out our faults. Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, with the
guidance and instruction of our master, we practice the
Six Harmonious Principles. The
first thing we must practice in the Six Harmonious Principles
is to respect and cherish the opinions of others.
Therefore, we should differentiate so that we can be fair and impartial. Giving
opinions
leads to consequences
for those who do not know how to practice: they
forget to turn their minds inward,
constantly seeing the faults of
others to criticize, condemn, and cause distress,
creating a suffering,
disharmonious, and heartless
community. This
is also a form of pointing out faults.
But before pointing out faults,
we must purify our own minds. We
must purify our minds, not seeing ourselves as
greedy, not seeing ourselves as angry, not
seeing ourselves as lacking in contemplation.
Incomplete contemplation is called delusion. If
we want to point out others' faults or
contribute ideas to make our community better, we must first
purify our own minds.
When we see that our minds are not driven by greed, then we must
speak.  It's not because of greed or infatuation that one
should speak out.
If one's mind is still filled with greed and anger, if one has
n't yet attained contemplation, if one doesn't understand the
Dharma, or
what kind of fault it is, or how harmful it is, then one
shouldn't point out faults. If one lacks
sufficient wisdom, one shouldn't point out faults. Instead,
we should offer constructive criticism to
each other in a normal, supportive way.
I have already guided the esteemed fellow practitioners on how to
point out faults. That is, from my perspective,
or my own perspective, I see that this action
seems inappropriate in this or
that aspect, so I ask the fellow practitioners to explain
this so that I can understand the intention. That is
the intention of someone who doesn't know how to contemplate but
practices the Dharma of pointing out faults.
But pointing out faults is wrong. Pointing out
faults is imposing one's own thoughts
on others, is
n't it? When someone has an opinion,
we vehemently oppose it, which is
very dangerous.
The mind of a monk who, during the three-
month rainy season retreat, is pure and diligent in
practicing the Dharma, bringing
joy and
hope to
all fellow practitioners.  For
me, only admitting one's own faults
is true self-cultivation, only
true practice
during the three-month retreat, dear fellow practitioners.
That's how monks should be, and we Buddhists
should also practice like that, dear fellow
practitioners. How can we make our minds
proficient in the practice of admitting faults? To be proficient in
admitting faults, we should always look at our own faults
before any event. Before any event that concerns
us, we must analyze our faults first,
repent and admit our faults first, until
our minds are no longer
controlled by greed, no longer controlled by anger, and
fully contemplate before admitting faults. That is what is called
knowing the Dharma.
Otherwise, we are all deluded,
envious, jealous, angry, and
only pointing out each other's faults. That does
not
benefit ourselves, our community, or the
majority; it brings no merit or virtue
to
this world, dear fellow practitioners. Isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? Before, the Buddha manifested the Dharma, the
saints manifested the Dharma for us to learn
from. If we  If we don't follow the Buddha,
we are not true disciples of the Buddha.
We are merely wearing the robe of a
disciple, but in reality, we are not true
disciples of the Buddha, my fellow practitioners. The
Buddha
has
ten noble titles, all of which are
full of merit.
Hearing these ten titles, full of
merit, fills our hearts with
joy, and we want to learn
from them, to attain
those merits, don't we, my fellow practitioners? We
also aspire to achieve
such things. Therefore, when we recite
Buddhist scriptures, we are not reciting for the
Buddha statue to hear, am I right, my fellow practitioners?
We are reciting scriptures
before the Buddha's image, bowing in reverence, so that
we may deeply penetrate the meaning of the scriptures and
practice them. Only then are we worthy of being called true
reciters, my fellow practitioners. My fellow
practitioners,
in the section on "Aspiration and Contemplation,"
there is a concern when
assisting the practice of the Dharma centers. In the section on "
Contemplation and Recitation," I see that...  The spirit of
self-acknowledgment, self-repentance, and self-reflection—
that is, analyzing the
situation, admitting one's mistakes,
and self-reflection to learn from them and
repent before the
public—is still too weak.
This is called
not knowing how to cultivate oneself. We must
achieve these two things freely and without hindrance: firstly,
self-acknowledgment of mistakes; secondly, repentance before the
public. These two things must be completely free and without hindrance. Only then can we be
called a
person who knows how to cultivate.
Those who always deny their mistakes, who cannot contemplate and
reflect on their own minds, are
called ignorant people. Fellow practitioners,
you must know your mind in the
present moment. You must know how to let go, or in
other words, liberate yourself from the defiled mind
in the present moment. Only then can you truly be a
wise person, only then can you truly be free from ignorance, only then can you be called a person of
clear-sightedness. If,
with any situation,
we cannot recognize
our own mind in the present moment, we have no way to counteract it
and escape from it.  When unwholesome thoughts become bound and
uncontrollable, we
are in a state of delusion. We often speak of greed, anger, and delusion,
but we don't
know what the manifestation of delusion is. It's the manifestation of
delusion—not knowing
our present state of mind. We are all trapped in
karmic thoughts,
without any method to counteract or escape from
that unwholesome mind. This is called karmic delusion.
Therefore, Buddhists often say, "My fellow
practitioners still have a lot of greed, anger, and delusion." But in
reality, they
don't understand what delusion is. Whether
we are currently greedy, angry, clear-sighted,
aware of our minds, or
without a method to counteract and escape from
that unwholesome mind, it all belongs
to delusion.
Therefore, for those who practice, what
they need to aim for is to become
proficient in this Dharma. The Buddha
taught that one should contemplate however one wants.
If contemplation turns outward and
doesn't look back at the mind, then all
such contemplation
is unlawful. Any
contemplation that turns inward,
recognizing the mind to escape the
bondage of unwholesome thoughts, is...
These contemplations are all genuine contemplations, my fellow
practitioners.
The Mind-Contemplation of the Complete Enlightenment hopes that all of you, my esteemed fellow
practitioners, will
wish to practice the Dharma
today.
All of our Dharma centers have created two
Zalo groups:
one for mind-contemplation for the leadership team,
and another for the leadership team. The
leadership team will contemplate their own minds,
acknowledge their mistakes, and repent – ​​this isn't just about
mistakes made
while performing their duties. The Zalo group
for members A and B will focus on
self-reflection and liberation from their own minds in
all aspects of life, including
family, friends, and colleagues. We're posting this
there.
This is an opportunity for us to encourage each
other in our practice; otherwise, we'll just keep
stagnating, my esteemed fellow practitioners. Here, the Mind
-Contemplation of the Complete Enlightenment will guide you: First,
we will contemplate the situation. Step one: contemplate the
situation. Step two: contemplate our mistakes
in the situation. We will
recognize our shortcomings in our
professional work, as well as in
our minds. Step two:
we will analyze and see our errors.
In two aspects, firstly, our
work, and secondly, our mind,
expressed through our behavior and
thoughts, which are deeply unwholesome. Thirdly,
we
must
[in music]
desire to abandon that unwholesome mind,
or we have already abandoned it, or we
haven't abandoned it yet. If we write it
down,
we will gradually become proficient in the practice of
repentance. And when we are proficient, only then
can we receive
correction, fellow practitioners. If
we are not proficient in acknowledging our mistakes,
we will never receive correction. The same applies to the collective
mistakes of the
Sangha and the collective of Buddhists.
Incorrect practice leads to suffering.
We live in a community, and if we
don't know how to practice, that community will
only bring us suffering and distress. Is
n't that right?
Therefore, learning from the Buddha is the duty
and responsibility of all his disciples.
The mind of the enlightened one is also very concerned
about the practice of the Dharma
for those who have the opportunity to be guided by the mind of the enlightened one. The mind of the enlightened one is
very concerned and realizes
why the mind...  It's become so harsh,
sometimes even in our interactions. It's not that
we lack love, compassion, or
generosity; it all turns into
criticism, attacks, malice, and
factionalism. Sometimes, even eating is done
with malicious calculation;
walking, standing, sitting, and lying down are all done with
that calculation. The mind is not joyful, is
n't that right, everyone? When the
mind is not joyful, strength will be exhausted, energy will be
depleted, and illness will arise.
But
when the mind is joyful,
illness is eliminated. Only
those with very heavy karmic burdens
will illness arise. But when
such people accept
illness, they are not troubled.
Those who are troubled, anxious, and fearful by a little illness
know that they have
n't practiced anything; their karma is just like that, dear fellow
practitioners. It's not that I just
contemplated and saw impermanence; it's
not like that. It's the element
of the mind's achievement, which is emotion.
And this emotion is only achieved when
we know how to turn inward and liberate ourselves
from unwholesome thoughts. Joyful emotion
Joy is what gives rise to it,
not like we just think, "
Okay, at that time I'm contemplating impermanence,
I'm contemplating this," but before we even begin to contemplate it, we start shouting, right?
Because we are the five aggregates, and if we
don't cultivate within ourselves the five aggregates
in the feeling of joy every day,
how can we have a
beautiful body composed of the five aggregates?
And part 2 of the
second sutra speaks of a
person, a woman, who came to
pay homage to the monks with a heart full of
faith, reverence, and good intentions. That is to say,
we, a man or woman, come to
pay homage to the monks after the monks have been in
retreat for three months. We come to pay homage to the
monks with a
heart full of faith, reverence, and good intentions, so
after death, we are reborn in the three heavens.
But how must this person pay homage to the
monks? To
pay homage to these monks, it is through the
mind's illumination, through contemplating and reciting the Sutra of Suffering
when being born as a human in the world, that is,
the heavenly realm.  This woman, after being
reborn in heaven, should have met a
diligent and virtuous monk with a
sincere and faithful heart. She should have respectfully bowed with clasped hands,
without asking for offerings. This was just a simple
bow at his feet, and yet she
met such a virtuous monk.
The merit is enough to be reborn in heaven. Is
n't that incredibly beneficial, dear fellow practitioners?
However, if one encounters a
monk who doesn't know how to cultivate their mind, abandoning
unwholesome thoughts day and night,
living with greed,
anger,
and judgment,
then even if one makes offerings, the
merit won't be much, let alone the merit from simply
bowing. Isn't that right, dear practitioners?
So, if we receive merit from bowing to a virtuous monk,
why
not cultivate ourselves and bow at the same time? Wouldn't that bring
more merit? Isn't that right,
dear practitioners? During
these three months of practice, let's turn our minds inward, repent, and
examine our
own minds.  To escape all
unwholesome thoughts, constantly contemplate your mind
to liberate yourself from them.
Contemplation is about
repeatedly reflecting and repenting. And when you truly see yourself as
having a wholesome mind, joy, and clarity, then point out your
faults; otherwise,
don't point them out. The merit
you create will bring blessings to your
children if they are happy with you, and to your
parents if they are happy with you. If your
friends are happy with you,
they will also receive blessings. If anyone is happy with
you, they will also receive blessings. Therefore, the
practice of cultivation is not about saving yourself
first, but about benefiting others.
Sometimes, when we practice, we only
think about "I am going to benefit
others," constantly thinking like that. For
months, we only think about going to
this place, lecturing, teaching, helping,
without ever realizing that we are falling into depravity every minute and every
second. Truly,
such a person is deluded and will not benefit
anyone. Isn't that right? Can someone who
doesn't know how to swim save
someone else?  Are you drowning, my
dear friends? You can't save them.
So, if your mind truly lacks
liberation, then whoever you connect with
will only meet you again in a state of attachment and desire. You
can't meet
them again in a liberated state to
support or protect them. It's
just about sharing food and clothing, isn't it? Meeting
each other only to give each other
a few words of praise, a meaningless compliment that isn't
true, right? If
you're not truly anything, what benefit is there in people praising you? Is
n't that right, my
dear friends? Because you
know you're not truly anything, when people
praise you, your mind starts to think, "
I've met another fool
like myself," right?
[Music]
Sometimes we don't think like that,
we say, "Oh, I'm so happy to be praised!" Then
we become even
more deluded, we
call ourselves a wild duck and
think we're a swan, right, my
friends? We're impure but think we're
pure. People praise us because we're used to being
deluded,
so when we meet someone and they praise us...  It's like
immediately losing control of your emotions
because you're infatuated and you don't know anything.
So when someone praises you, you immediately
feel pleasure. Where does that feeling
come from? It's born from karma. That's
why you get excited when someone praises you,
without realizing it. A person who knows how to
practice is always clearly aware in the present moment. If you do
n't know in the present moment, then you're
not truly a practitioner.
We must have such knowledge to
know where we are in our practice,
where we are weak, and how we should
strive. Isn't that right, everyone? If
we don't know that,
how can we know how to strive? We live all day
with unwholesome thoughts.
Therefore, all of you esteemed fellow practitioners
in the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
whether you're practicing program one,
program two, or program three, the
result of your practice must be
mastery of the Dharma of self-acknowledgment and self-repentance
without hindrance. If
we still encounter obstacles when we speak words of repentance,
then that's just
greed, infatuation, and
being hindered by fame.
More profoundly, it's a fleeting ego.
To attain enlightenment, one must practice the
Dharma gradually.
We may not yet know what attachment is, what ego attachment is, what the five
aggregates are, or what we don't know at all.
But by diligently practicing the Dharma of repentance, we
will naturally understand.
Merit will arise, wisdom will spontaneously
open, and we will know.
Therefore, the Dharma of repentance is extremely
important. In the section on Dedication of Mindfulness and
Contemplation,
we dedicate our merits
to achieving enlightenment. We dedicate our
merits to the joyful practice of
acknowledging and pointing out mistakes.
In the section on Dedication of
Practice, we dedicate our merits to the
skillful practice of acknowledging our mistakes,
repenting, and joyfully accepting others' faults.
That is the important thing. Whatever Dharma practice we follow,
if we don't achieve
this, it's all a failure. No matter what Dharma practice we follow, we've
read countless scriptures and scriptures.
There isn't a single scripture that I do
n't know; I just
speak extemporaneously to anyone who asks, which is
called eloquence. If
anyone asks what this Dharma is, I'll just memorize it all. It's merely rote
learning, just
a bookshelf,
a machine that records and memorizes,
becoming ignorant, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. Therefore, we ourselves
must be practitioners of the Dharma,
not just those who memorize
scriptures, my esteemed fellow practitioners. So, with a mind that
reflects the Complete Enlightenment, I sincerely hope that
we will all make a vow to be together for eternity, to be connected to the
Dharma as female practitioners.
If, in reality, I now make a
vow to be
connected to the Dharma as female practitioners, but
when you practice in the
club and don't achieve the Dharma of
repentance, then before we can be called practitioners, we haven't even formed a
connection with each other, my esteemed fellow
practitioners. We must be practitioners to be
connected, because we only make a vow to be
connected to the Dharma as female practitioners. And once
connected to the Dharma as female practitioners, we must know how to
practice and aspire to liberation.  Isn't that right,
dear Dharma friends?
If you desire liberation, what kind of liberation are you seeking? Liberation
from erroneous views,
liberation from the bondage of unwholesome thoughts?
Today, I, with my mindful awareness, share this with
you to encourage you.
We have three months of practice, so
let's practice sincerely and hope
that we will achieve
certain levels of
merit. Don't
practice superficially, like "we also
practice for three months like the monks,"
but after practicing, we understand nothing, gain no
merit, and are not liberated from
unwholesome thoughts. We might even become
more bound and increase our
unwholesome thoughts. Isn't that right? We must
examine ourselves daily, dear Dharma friends; that's what true
practice is.
Here, I, with my mindful awareness, remind you, dear Dharma friends, that
when we practice together, there's another
aspect that I, with my mindful awareness, am very
concerned about in the Dharma center's leadership.
When we are given equal opportunities to contribute
opinions, we are still driven by greed and
delusion, so
we just keep giving our opinions.  They
don't know their own capabilities, do they even
know that? They don't know the truth,
yet they just give opinions haphazardly,
just giving opinions whenever they see an opportunity. Do you, esteemed
fellow practitioners, see
this situation in the Dharma hall? They
just give opinions without knowing whether their opinion is
appropriate or not, whether
they are suitable to give an opinion
on this matter, whether they have the knowledge,
and what their mindset is when giving an opinion. They
don't reflect anymore, they just give
opinions and stubbornly cling to them, creating
a
place where people gradually get bored and
don't want to be there anymore. Everyone is bored,
everyone is bored and doesn't want to be in
that group anymore. And they make the mistake of
always blaming others. The esteemed fellow
practitioners, with their mindful awareness, have
encountered a group of people like this.
I see that the group is always like this, always like
this. Then I ask
others, and they also see the group like
this. I ask, "Who is this group?"
Ten people all say, "This group is
not good, this group is like this." So,
who is this group? This group is...  That person
's assessment of the congregation reflects
their own situation,
but due to karmic delusion, they fail to recognize this and blame the
congregation.
All five, ten, twenty, thirty,
forty, or fifty people in that congregation
criticize their own congregation,
unaware that they themselves are deluded, controlled by karmic delusion, and
unknowingly manipulated. The result of that congregation is that during their practice, they don't know how to
practice the Dharma, acknowledge their mistakes, and repent. To be
honest, a congregation that is deluded,
ignorant, unwholesome, and
deserving of blame and condemnation, is of no benefit
to the majority. Isn't that right, dear fellow
practitioners? A failed congregation, an impure congregation,
therefore...  When we live in a community, we
must be mindful of our own conduct,
and if everyone is conscious of their own
conduct, then the community will be dignified.
We cannot condemn the community; what
we have done for it
is what matters. But the Mind-
Viewing Enlightenment, having interacted with many of you, dear
congregations, never thinks about
what we have done for this community. We
always only criticize others with
resentment, with unwholesome minds, with
impure minds. These are reprehensible and
condemnable. Here, the Mind-Viewing Enlightenment is
speaking about all the states of
these reprehensible communities so that we do not
fall into that situation. Do you agree, dear fellow practitioners?
Don't fall into that trap,
don't let yourself become
such a person, and don't accept
living in such a community.
Wherever we live, we must be dignified, we
must follow the Buddha's teachings, not be
ashamed of being born into this world, not be
ashamed of being a disciple of the Buddha. Dear fellow practitioners, the
Mind-Viewing Enlightenment Enlightenment is very
strict and
somewhat helpless with these communities.
Cao Cuong teaches repeatedly but doesn't understand anything.  I
also lost strength with those groups
who, no matter how much I explained, still did
n't understand; no matter how much I taught, they still didn't know anything. They couldn't even
distinguish language or
understand the meaning of words, so they made less and
less progress in their
spiritual cultivation. I sincerely hope that all of you,
our esteemed fellow practitioners, our Dharma centers, and
our leadership, will see that being
born into this life and encountering the True Dharma is a
supreme blessing. Encountering the True
Dharma is a precious treasure, more valuable than anything we have possessed from countless lifetimes. We must apply it, practice it, and cultivate it. I tell you, esteemed fellow practitioners, that
those practitioners make another
fundamental mistake: they
always look at those around them, see what others are doing,
and follow them, thus
failing to progress. I
have also
encouraged many groups like this, saying, "
I am unique in the world, independent
in the world, I share nothing with the
world. I must live like that,
living only with the Buddha's Dharma, even if there are
countless unawakened beings beside me."  I'm
enlightened, but I don't allow myself to be
unenlightened, do
you all agree? Around
us are all lawless people, but I
don't accept being lawless. That's what it means
to be a practitioner; that's how you
know how to practice. Right now, all day long we
look at people, thinking, "This person is
wrong, that person is
wrong," from morning till night, we wake up and only
look at that, learn that, get troubled by
that, where do we find the time to progress? That
's
why
in the scriptures we practice: in our eyes we
don't see unwholesome things, in our ears we
don't hear unwholesome things. We must
let ourselves be that way. Unwholesome things
belong to others, but we must
never be unwholesome ourselves.
We can rise
amidst countless beings and fall, not the other way around. That's
a mistaken way of thinking.
Therefore, the mind-reading and perfect contemplation says that no matter
what kind of beings we are in, the mind-reading and perfect contemplation allows
us to live independently, without being tainted. We must have our own way of life. We
only learn good things;
we are not responsible for reforming bad things.
Is it right to accompany this evil? My only responsibility is
to learn good, to accompany
good deeds.
Those who practice spiritual cultivation must understand this, and
those living in the world must also understand this
in order to live happily and joyfully. If
the eyes see colors and appearances, then
attachment arises, and afflictions arise, is
n't that right? Seeing
someone else's mistakes, I can't sleep. If they are
wrong but I am not,
then I can't sleep because I worry and
repent. If someone is wrong and I can't sleep,
what else can I say? Or if
someone says something wrong about me, I can't sleep at night either.
That's
their business; whether I am wrong
is the fundamental question. Do you fellow practitioners agree?
So, if someone says something wrong about me, or anything like that, it's like
losing your appetite, losing
your ability to walk,
not knowing where you're going. My mind is completely
focused on what they said. Is
n't that foolish, fellow practitioners?
Consider it as a person who
has no sense of self.
Being
completely independent and self-reliant, yet completely
dependent—words are carried away by the wind,
sounds disappear into space,
but they still linger in
my heart, tormenting me, preventing me from eating and
sleeping. How foolish! Is it
really foolish? Truly foolish.
So when you're in this situation, you should resolve
it by looking back at
your actions, looking at what people are saying about you. If it's
your mistake, go and correct it; that's good. If
people say something untrue about you,
ignore it; why bother confronting them? It's
tiring and a waste of time, right?
If you're a fellow practitioner,
you can talk to each other so that everyone
understands each other and can practice together. If you're
not a fellow practitioner, ignore it completely;
why waste time and effort
going here and there to talk, wasting
so much time and energy
doing useless things that
create negative karma for yourself? That's not good, is
it, fellow practitioners? Because of the mind's illumination and the complete contemplation, I
also
want to share with you, fellow practitioners, that we
are all human beings.  Buddhist disciples, and
especially us, who are disciples of
our master, should practice in a way that is
worthy, dear fellow practitioners.
Firstly,
to repay the Buddha's grace and the
efforts of our teacher, is
n't that right? Secondly,
to benefit ourselves, not
anyone else. Let's all be
determined to make these three months,
even if we are not yet fully proficient. But we
must also know how to admit our mistakes and repent. If we
didn't know something before, we
must learn it in these three months. If we already know something, we should
strive to become more proficient.
Do you all agree?
[Applause]
We pray that
our practice will be successful.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. We are
grateful for the encouraging words and
sharing of the head teacher, and we hope that from
her encouragement, the Buddhist practitioners will have
more resources to continue practicing, have
more motivation to be more diligent, and achieve more benefits
in their practice. Dear Buddhist
practitioners, the opening ceremony of the three-month
retreat for the monks has now been
completed.  The chanting schedule for the
meditation program will be broadcast on the following
media channels: Ba Vang Pagoda YouTube channel,
Ba Vang Pagoda fanpage, Cuc Vang Club, Luc Hoa meditation
practice, and the website bavangpao.com.
We cordially invite all Buddhist followers and friends to
follow along. We wish all Buddhist followers and their
families joy and diligence in their practice, and
much happiness. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music]